Blog: add sebastian 5 year post (#169)
bitcoinbrink/website: _posts/2026-04-25-sebastians-five-years.md

category: "News"
description: This month, we're celebrating five years of Sebastian Falbesoner (theStack) working on Bitcoin Core and libsecp256k1 at Brink.
---
<div class="header-images">
  <img src="/assets/images/sebastian-falbesoner.jpg" alt="Sebastian Falbesoner celebrates five years at Brink">
</div>

This month, we're celebrating five years of Sebastian Falbesoner
([GitHub][sebastian github], [X][sebastian x]) working on Bitcoin Core and
libsecp256k1 at Brink. Sebastian's progress followed an arc similar to other
contributors by starting with often unglamorous test work, steadily widening his
scope, and eventually stepping up to steward impactful privacy proposals. We are
glad to have supported that journey, and optimistic about where it's heading.

## Part-Time Testing

Sebastian [joined Brink][sebastian grant blog] in July 2021 as part of our
second round of developer grants. At the time he was contributing in his spare
time around a full-time software engineering job, and the grant gave him a
dedicated slice of each week to focus purely on Bitcoin Core.

From the beginning, his contributions were grounded in the parts of the project

> that tend to attract fewer headlines but provide the project's foundation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that tend to attract fewer headlines but provide the project's foundation:
```

> including code review, testing, and the functional test framework. His early

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code review, testing, and the functional test framework. His early
```

work [added missing checks for consensus reject reasons][bc 22711], [improved
RPC error coverage][bc 18466], cleaned up outdated terminology (such as
[converting tests from the pre-segwit concept of "block size" to "block
weight"][bc 22378]), and [expanded the use of MiniWallet][bc 21867] so that more
tests could run without the Bitcoin Core wallet compiled. He also helped
Hennadii's efforts by [chipping away at the codebase's overuse of recursive
mutexes][bc issue 19303], either replacing them with non-recursive ones or
removing them entirely where possible.

## BIP324

In 2022 and 2023, Sebastian became increasingly involved in the review of
BIP324, the [version 2 P2P transport protocol][v2 transport] that added
encryption to Bitcoin's peer-to-peer layer. It was the first project where he
really leaned into the cryptographic side of Bitcoin, reviewing everything from
the ElligatorSwift key exchange primitives to the network-layer integration.
Reviewers noticed that he had a habit of re-implementing pieces of the protocol

> independently to cross-check the Bitcoin Core implementation which is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
independently to cross-check the Bitcoin Core implementation, which is
```

particularly valuable for cryptographic code.

On top of his review work, Sebastian built [bip324-proxy][bip324 proxy], a
[proof-of-concept][optech bip324 proxy] that makes it easier for light clients
to use v2 encrypted transport without implementing the protocol themselves.

## Libsecp256k1

Sebastian describes libsecp256k1 as "one of the most fascinating projects in the
Bitcoin ecosystem due to its low-level, math-like and highly optimized
character, as well as its importance for both nodes and wallets".

Since his initial libsecp256k1 work with BIP324, he has contributed by adding
exhaustive test coverage for the ElligatorSwift module, reviewing the MuSig2
module that shipped in v0.6.0, and reviving an old pull request to ensure
sensitive memory (like private key material) is properly cleared without being

> optimized out by the compiler. Related to that last change, he also identified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
optimized out by the compiler. While working on that fix, he also identified
```

and fixed a place in Bitcoin Core where private key data could be leaked during
xprv parsing.

In 2024 he co-authored [BIP374][bip374] (DLEQ proofs for secp256k1), writing the
reference implementation and test vectors and helping refine the specification.
By the end of the year, Jonas Nick described him as "a key contributor to the
project" whose reviews "carry significant weight."

> ## Full-Time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Going Full-Time
```
